---
layout: post
title: "Why Babies Explore Through Their Mouths"
date: 2023-12-22 05:55:01 +0000
categories: "News"
excerpt_image: https://mamaschoice.sg/wp-content/uploads/sites/3/2021/06/Find-out-why-do-babies-put-everything-in-their-mouths.jpg
image: https://mamaschoice.sg/wp-content/uploads/sites/3/2021/06/Find-out-why-do-babies-put-everything-in-their-mouths.jpg
---

Children explore through oral stimulation during their early development stages. As toddlers begin to learn about themselves and the world around them, examining objects with their mouths is an important part of the learning process. While it may seem strange to older people, mouthing is actually very normal and healthy behavior for babies and young children. Here is a more in-depth look at why babies explore orally and how caregivers can support this natural development.
## Discovering Sensory Inputs  
During the **first year of life**, infants rely heavily on their sense of taste and touch to understand their surroundings. With every object they put into their mouth, babies are receiving important **sensory feedback** about textures, temperatures, shapes and more. This hands-on exploration activates different areas of the brain and helps wire neural connections that will aid cognitive and motor function down the line. While adults may worry about germs, a baby's mouthing is how they assimilate diverse physical sensations into their developing brains. As long as objects are deemed safe, restricting this exploration could hinder important neurological growth.
## Curiosity Through the Mouths
Babies are naturally **inquisitive little creatures** who want to investigate anything and everything within their reach. Since vision and motor skills are still immature during the first year, reaching out with their mouths is one of the primary ways infants can directly interact with and understand an item of interest. Whether it's a toy, blanket, parent's finger or even their own toes, mouthing allows babies to feed their innate curiosity through touch and taste. Stopping this behavior often does little to curb interest - it only removes a key learning tool. Caregivers should accept mouthing as typical curious behavior.
## Teething and Comfort  
As babies begin teething between 6-12 months, putting objects and hands in their mouth also serves an important self-soothing function. The light pressure aids with the discomfort of new teeth coming in. Fingers, feet and toys provide relief during this process. Stopping a baby from mouthing could increase fussiness if another coping mechanism is not available. Once teeth appear, babies may continue mouthing for comfort long after teething concludes as well. Appropriate items allow stress release during this significant developmental change.
## Language Development Connections
While it may seem unrelated, a baby's natural mouthing and object exploration in the first two years of life is actually an important precursor to speech. The motions of the mouth, tongue and cheeks when gumming or sucking on items help develop important oral motor skills needed later for pronouncing words and forming syllables. Early mouthing also stimulates the areas of the brain involved in language processing. By depriving babies of this typical oral behavior, parents could unknowingly delay future language milestones down the line. Appropriate object mouthing aids natural development.
## Guidance, Not Restriction 
Rather than punishing or restricting a baby's normal mouthing instincts during the first two years, caregivers should embrace this exploration as an important phase and provide gentle guidance. Keep fingers and any small, **choke-hazard items** out of reach to avoid danger. Frequently wash baby's hands and toys to reduce germs. Offer **teething toys** and other appropriate objects that are BPA-free if hand or finger sucking occurs. Respect that mouthing is calming and educational. With time and maturity, children naturally transition to other forms of play appropriate for their age. Early mouthing should not be halted, only regulated sensibly.
## Transitioning away from Oral Stimulation 
By 18-24 months, toddlers shift focus from mouths to hands as motor skills improve, although occasional mouthing may still occur for comfort. During this transitional phase, caregivers can gently redirect to other engaging toys if the child puts unclean items in their mouth. Praise exploration that does not involve mouths. Offering water or **chewable healthy snacks** can satisfy oral urges in a sanitary way. Continue to keep small items out of reach to avoid lapses in judgment as new independences emerges. With patience and redirection over restriction, toddlers learn alternative actions that satisfy curiosity safely.
## Healthy Development Through Self-Exploration
It is both typical and important for infants and toddlers to explore their bodies and environments through their sense of taste and touch from an early age. Mouthing provides valuable sensory input that aids cognitive, motor and language development. Caregivers should allow for safe curiosity by fully supervising access to appropriate items that satisfy innate instincts to suck and chew. With time, natural maturation replaces the need for hands-on learning through mouths. Rather than punishment, gentle guidance towards cleaner alternatives teaches balance between nourishment, comfort and safety as children mature. Overall, early oral exploration should be embraced, not eliminated, for healthy development.