---
layout: post
title: "The Differences Between Powerlifting and Strongman"
date: 2023-10-26 09:29:36 +0000
categories: "Fitness"
excerpt_image: https://liftbigeatbig.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/Strongman-vs-Powerlifting-Difference.jpg
image: https://liftbigeatbig.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/Strongman-vs-Powerlifting-Difference.jpg
---

## The Basics of Powerlifting 
Powerlifting is focused solely on three lifts - the squat, bench press, and deadlift. Competitors aim to lift the maximum weight possible in these three lifts. Powerlifting has strict rules regarding form to ensure safety and fairness. Lifters are judged very closely on their form to avoid disqualifications. 
**While strength is important, powerlifting allows specialization.** Athletes can focus all their training solely on perfecting and maximizing these three main lifts. Accessory and assistance exercises often directly support improving the main lifts. For example, front squats help build quad strength for back squats. Powerlifting meets have weight classes so competitors of similar sizes can compete against each other fairly.
## The More Varied Nature of Strongman Events
Strongman features a constantly evolving list of events that test complete **overall strength, grip strength, and power endurance.** Events include lifting, carrying, pushing, pulling and throwing heavy implement and vehicles. This requires strongmen to train every muscle group with a variety of exercises.
Some competitions may have a truck pull, where lifters drag a heavy vehicle across a field. Others could include a farmer's carry while moving quickly over uneven terrain. The implements are unbalanced and often thick-handled, requiring considerable grip strength. Since events vary widely, strongmen must train more generally instead of specializing. Their training programs must stay unpredictable to prepare for surprises.
## The Athletic Requirements of Strongman
Due to the variety of strongman challenges, competitors need high levels of ** work capacity, muscular endurance, grip strength, and mobility.** Some events like medley rounds require powerlifting-level strength combined with the capacity to keep exerting force over time. Other challenges like truck pulls seem tailored more for natural strength athletes due to their explosive power needs. 
Strongmen also tend to be taller with larger frames than even the largest powerlifting weight classes. This is an advantage for throwing events and carrying tasks where longer limbs provide superior leverage. Strongman champions are often around 6'0" tall and weigh 100+ kg on average. Their greater height and weight help handle the unbalanced implements without risk of injury from the stresses.
## Strongman Provides More Entertainment 
Strongman attracts greater spectator interest than powerlifting in part because of this event diversity. Seeing implements with whimsical names get crushed or dragged over terrain brings more visual drama. Comparatively, powerlifting can seem static with long pauses between lift attempts while judges make calls. 
Strongman also features athlete drama as champions battle novel challenges. Will the sport's greatest adapt and find victory over surprises, or fall to the new tests? The uncertain nature of events adds thrilling question marks for audiences to ponder. Which feats will emerge as an athlete's strengths or weaknesses? These factors help strongman grow it's following more quickly.
## The Increasing Popularity of Strongman
As strongman ascends in popularity worldwide, more followers join the community and competition spreads to new regions. Social media raises the sport's profile by connecting fans directly to their favorite athletes. Large televised competitions broadcast challenges like World's Strongest Man to new viewers. 
This growing recognition presents strongman as a test of complete human strength ability far beyond powerlifting's three lift specialization. Now gaining in mainstream appeal, strongman may continue bringing new challengers and fans to its dynamic sport worldwide through its variety and visual energy. Powerlifting still develops raw strength - but strongman captures imaginations by showcasing how champions manage exceptional feats through determined training.
## Strongman as a Test of Total Strength and Grit
While powerlifting offers a purer strength comparison through tightly controlled variables, strongman serves as a more athletic evaluation of total force production ability. Its ever-changing challenges push athletes to constantly evolve their training diversity. Competitors show not just strength levels but also adaptability, flexibility, pain tolerance, and perseverance through difficult carries and max effort events.
Succeeding at strongman demands the resilience to continually surprise oneself with new personal bests under unpredictable conditions. Champions prove their mettle by managing surprises with grit, resourcefulness and relentless motivation through difficult training phases. Overcoming constant changes separates greats from good. Those with the determination and tactical prowess to thrive under less controllable scenarios stand out in this sport.
## Strongman as a Test of Complete Physical Power
The eclectic variety of strongman tasks means champions must develop an all-around strength profile. Large muscle groups like legs and back receive emphasis from events such as yoke carries, truck pulls and frame carries. Hand strength and grip fortitude grow important for stone and implement lifting. Rotational core power proves vital for throwing disciplines.
More so than powerlifting's three lifts, strongman evaluates a competitor's ** complete muscular structure.** It reveals weakness that may remain hidden without diverse challengers. Rounding physical capabilities more fully serves athletes who pursue growth for its own rewards. Strongman offers a broader gauge of ability by pushing the entire body system rather than isolating strength to a few main lifts.
## Strongman's Appeal for Well-Rounded Achievers 
While specialization serves powerlifters seeking peak numbers, generalists enjoy strongman more for pursuing all-around strength. Some thrive on variety itself for continual adventure and learning. Strongman caters more directly to these competitive generalists by rewarding well-developed total body power. Its dynamic nature also provides visual stimulation valued by athletes who find powerlifting repetitive after dedication to the sport. 
For these reasons, strongman draws competitive individuals motivated by pushing diverse physical limits instead of pursuing records in narrow skills. Its unpredictable challenges satisfy the generalist spirit by making every training cycle and contest a fresh learning experience towards completion mastery over one's full bodily strength expression. This philosophy suits many who pursue strength sports for self-betterment above all else.