---
layout: post
title: "Biden's Presidency: Plagued with Controversies and Criticism"
date: 2023-12-01 21:55:58 +0000
categories: "News"
excerpt_image: https://cdn.cnn.com/cnnnext/dam/assets/210720202050-biden-cabinet-meeting-0720-super-tease.jpg
image: https://cdn.cnn.com/cnnnext/dam/assets/210720202050-biden-cabinet-meeting-0720-super-tease.jpg
---

## Hunter Biden Scandal and Questionable Wealth
**Joe Biden** has long faced criticism and suspicion over how he amassed his wealth while serving in public office for decades. Biden graduated from law school in 1968 and quickly took on roles as a public defender and county commissioner by 1969 and 1972 respectively. However, by the early 1970s he was already elected to the US Senate, leaving many to wonder how he accumulated his finances to support his family and political career. 
Biden's son **Hunter Biden** has also been embroiled in numerous controversies. In particular, Hunter was direct commissioned as a naval officer in a White House ceremony in 2014 despite being well over the age limit and having a criminal history involving drugs. This raise serious ethical questions about nepotism and unfairly taking an officer position that could have gone to a more deserving candidate. Soon after, Hunter was discharged from the navy after failing a drug test for cocaine. 
More recently, Hunter's business dealings in Ukraine and China while his father was Vice President have come under intense scrutiny. Emails found on Hunter's abandoned laptop suggest he may have introduced his father, as Vice President, to Ukrainian businessman. This adds fuel to the notion that Biden has benefited financially from his political positions and calls into question whether he was truly serving the American people's interests.
## A History of Fabrications and Plagiarism 
Joe Biden has faced accusations of dishonesty throughout his career regarding various stories and speeches he has told. Chief among the calls of deceit was Biden falsely claiming to have been a coal minor as a young man. In reality, Biden grew up in a middle class family in Delaware where his father worked as a car salesman.   
Numerous other instances have emerged of Biden copying parts of other people's speeches and stories without attribution. For example, he was found to have plagiarized a speech by then-British Labour Party leader Neil Kinnock for his 1988 presidential campaign. Such a flagrant lack of integrity into calling his own words and ideas into question raises serious concerns about Biden's trustworthiness.
## Problematic Policy Stances and Comments
Over his decades-long career, Biden has taken stances and made comments that have drawn ire from many within his own party as well as Americans of all political stripes. He vocally supported the Iraq War and harsh crime bills, opposed bussing to desegregate schools, and criticized future President Obama in a racially insensitive manner. 
Biden also told millennials to "give him a break" when critiquing his climate change plan. He proclaimed that a newspaper said he wanted all crimes to carry the death penalty except "jaywalking". Most controversially, in 2006 Biden remarked that Indians at 7/11 convenience stores had "slight Indian accents", reflecting outdated stereotypes. Such a track record raises doubts about Biden's progressive values and ability to unite Americans.
## Cognitive Decline and Gaffes
At age 78, serious questions emerged in 2020 about Biden's mental acuity and frequent verbal miscues or "gaffes" on the campaign trail. He often misspoke or appeared confused during speeches and interviews. Public speaking was once considered one of Biden's strengths but the gaffes called that into question and fueled concerns about his age and ability to serve as President. 
The gaffes and cognitive issues intensified doubts about Biden's suitability for one of the most stress intensive jobs in the world. Could he deftly handle rigorous negotiations with adversaries on the world stage or make split second life-or-death decisions as commander-in-chief? His advanced age and unclear mental state added further uncertainty and danger for America.
## Divisive Rhetoric and Platform
Throughout his 2020 campaign, Biden's main calling card was simply that he was "not Trump" which many saw as a hollow and divisive message. He failed to offer a compelling vision to rally Americans behind and bring the country together after four polarizing years. 
When pressed on substantive issues, Biden showed he remained out of step with the rising progressive wing of his party. He dismissed growing demands to reign in big corporations and billionaires. This did little to quell concerns that at his core, Biden still primarily served establishment economic interests over struggling working families.
## Viability for a Second Term 
Given Biden's advanced age of 78 years old when taking office along with the immense stress of the presidency, serious doubts emerged about whether he could physically and mentally handle another 4 year term until age 82. The demands of campaigning for reelection may also prove too taxing.
His first term has featured ongoing cognitive issues, public gaffes reinforcing concerns about his mental acuity, and controversy dogging his family members. This fuels uncertainty about whether voters within his own party, let alone Americans broadly, will want to entrust the presidency to him again in 2024 rather than new leadership. 
At this stage in his career and lifetime, Biden may be better served focusing the remainder of his term on governing competently and setting the stage for a new generation of Democratic leadership to take the reins after him. Otherwise, Biden risks irreparably damaging his legacy and jeopardizing his party's future chances if he mounts another national campaign.
## Legacy in Jeopardy 
Joe Biden entered office with an opportunity to accomplish landmark reforms and help restore faith in American leadership after the tumult of the Trump era. However, his presidency has quickly become plagued by the same types of controversies, gaffes and questions of his competence, character and progressive bona fides that long defined his career.
Unless Biden and his team can more effectively address the numerous political liabilities and distractions holding him back, his legacy risks being largely forgettable or defined primarily by his family members' scandals rather than genuine accomplishments. For Biden personally, clinging to another campaign may further degrade his once proud public image instead of allowing a graceful exit focusing on meaningful policy victories. Only time will tell if Biden can rise to the occasion or if the relentless controversies continue to sink his presidency.